SBE Load Generator
The SBE Load Generator is a Python script that generates and sends random SBE (Simple Binary Encoding) messages over a TCP connection. It utilizes the sbe_encoder_decoder.py module for encoding the messages based on your specified SBE templates.

Prerequisites
Before running the load generator script, ensure that you have the following:

Python 3.x installed on your machine.
The config.ini file that contains the configuration parameters for the load generator.
The connections.cfg file that contains the connection details for the SBE TCP session.
The sbe_encoder_decoder.py module that provides the encoding and decoding functionality for the SBE messages.
The SBE template file (template.txt) that defines the structure and fields of the SBE messages.
Installation
Clone or download the repository containing the load generator script and the required files.

Install the necessary dependencies by running the following command:

Copy code
pip install -r requirements.txt
Configuration
Open the config.ini file and configure the following parameters:

Load: Set the message_rate parameter to specify the desired message rate (messages per second).
Load: Set the duration parameter to specify the duration of the load generation (in seconds).
Weights: Set the weights for each message type according to your desired distribution.
OptionsSecurityIDs: Set the security_ids parameter with a comma-separated list of security IDs.
Open the connections.cfg file and configure the following parameters:

Set the host parameter to the IP address or hostname of the SBE server.
Set the port parameter to the port number on which the SBE server is listening.
Set the user and password parameters with the appropriate credentials for the SBE session.
Ensure that the SBE template file (template.txt) is present and correctly defines the structure and fields of the SBE messages.

Usage
Open a terminal or command prompt and navigate to the directory containing the load generator script.

Run the load generator script using the following command:



python sbe_load_generator.py

The load generator will establish a TCP connection with the SBE server, perform the login procedure, and start sending random SBE messages based on the specified configuration.

The load generator will generate messages according to the configured weights and send them over the TCP connection at the specified rate.

The load generator will continue sending messages for the specified duration and then close the TCP connection.
